Scott Houston is a documentary photographer and filmmaker who’s work is concerned with the cultural, social, and political landscape of contemporary America. His work has received world wide publication for projects on drug use, teenage access to guns, incarceration, the culture of consumerism, the decline of American manufacturing, and many other pertinent issues in contemporary America. After his BFA at NYU’s Photography and Imaging department he joined the Sygma photo agency and has worked with, Time, Newsweek, US News and World Report, The London Times, National Geographic, Stern, Spin, Le Monde 2, Der Spiegel, The Open Society, CNN, PBS, and MTV among others. His work on the drug “ Ecstasy, “ has been recognized by The W. Eugene Smith Fund. It has also been exhibited at Perpignan in France, the Noordelicht gallery in Holland, ICP, the Corcoran gallery of Art in Washington D.C. and the Empty Quarter in Dubi. He is a graduate of The School of Visual Art’s MFA Photography Video and Related Media program which complies with the philosophy and understanding that, “the camera is a universal matrix for documenting, exploring and interpreting the ever changing world around us.” He lives in New York City. 
 
East Liverpool
The town of East Liverpool is situated forty-five miles west of Pittsburgh on the Ohio river on the borders of Pennsylvania and West Virginia. From the turn of the century to the mid-fifties the town was a manufacturing center mainly of china and steel. By 2016 it has lost most of it’s industry and only two china companies remain. East Liverpool reflects the decline of small manufacturing towns in the United States particularly in the north east and mid west. There is great polarization in the United States and you can see this in East Liverpool. There is a lot of unemployment, drugs, and growing crime in the town. Then there is the Country Club set … a small group of well to do’s who play golf at “The Club,” own nice cars, guns, and vote Republican. They live in their own little bubble unaware about what goes on in the town.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To view more of Scott’s work, please visit his 
website
.
 
